

jQuery Vs React Vs Angular 

    There are many front end web frameworks and libraries that devs use, of all of them the most common are jQuery, React and Angular (along with Vue). Recent trends have shown that React and Angular are becomming increasingly popular over the last five years. All of them are used to create front ends for websites and apps. Let us dive into them a little more to see the diffrences and similarties. 

    
    jQuery 

        jQuery is a Javascript library that adds some great syntatic sugar to your JS. Meaning that instead of having to type out long arduous JS to change the DOM, you can write much more succinct code for the interactivity of the site. It is easily used by including the jQuery CDN in the HTML 

        However, as time has progressed, React and Angular have become extremley popular due to their comprehensive approach to front end design. Other than adding some easy functionality and syntactic sugar to the JS, you really are just coding in vanilla JS and would add it to your website the same way as any other JS file. 

    
    React 

        Developed by Facebook, React is much more of a library than a framework. The distinction is that you can plug React into any other frame work and you would not have much of a problem. Frameworks such as Angular, dictate the structure of your app. 

        React is build on the idea of componets - modularized parts ofa website that are broken up inorder to achieve a more organized code base. It is written in JS and JSX, which is JS that looks like HTML. Knowing some HTML and JS will allow you to quickly pick up React 

        React does not however come with a Router out of the box, so you will usually need to use a third party router such as Reach Router, or React Router. 


    Angular 

        Angular is a full fleged framework that comes with a very comprehensive CLI (Command Line Interface). Angular takes control of how you structure your web app by creating a folder structure out of the bag and then you can use the CLI to quickly scaffold new componets. 

        Although Angular also works using componets like React, Angular uses Typescript to write most of the programming logic. You then will write in HTML to develop your actuall web pages. Angular comes with a router out of the bag as well as an easy way to start styling your HMTL with built in stylesheets within each component. 

        Angular has a fairly steep learning curve but it is quite powerful. s