

2/7/23

    Intro to class and links via calendar, class overview Instructor, background in marketing and econ. Got into coding after doing a Udemy course, also attended coding dojo, ta, then launched the python flask program, moved to data science, left coding dojo to work somewhere else. Enjoyed the teaching aspect of coding dojo, really enjoyed working here so he came back to continue teaching. Two dogs, super cute. TA Grey, worked with her before, pretty awesome. 


    What is a full stack application?

        Combination of front end, back end and database, takes information from the front end, passes it to the back end, then the back end passes it to the database, database tells the back end it worked, and the process continues 


    Hows MERN Different?

        In this stack well be running two servers, a front end client server, and then a backend server. unlike python and java, where it was just one server for the backend. 

    JavaScript Refresher! 


2/8/23

    Terminal Refresher

        ls-lists all files inside of your location 
        Directory-aka a folder
        cd- change directory, followed by location name, sometimes it must be in "" like for git bash if there are two words, and it is case sensitive in git bash. It is convent to only type the first three letters or so then hit tab. You can also chain the cd and continue to go further into the file structure without continuing to type cd 
        cd..-is for back stepping, you can also chain it like so cd../.. 
        mkdir-make directory followed by folder name note this only makes folders touch will be used for files. you can also make multiple folders at once. 
        touch- creates new files, follow it by the file name with . file type 
        code .- will open up everything up in VS code, but does not automatically work with windows or linux, not sure if it works with git bash. 

        Creating custom alias with git bash - https://codeburst.io/learn-how-to-create-custom-bash-commands-in-less-than-4-minutes-6d4ceadd9590

        Custom functions are also possible. Found some links but dated in 2019, 



    Lecture 

        Normal functions to arrow functions

            ES5 function, your typical function that has function declaration, function name () with its parameters/arguments and { what the function does inside of its block scope }

            Arrow function, create a variable, a const, declare the name,  = () =>, this tells the system and the program, that we are creating a variable that is a function, { establish what the function does inside} similar but the function is cleaner. 

                1. it makes the code cleaner, 
                2. automatically returns the value with an implicit return, so you will not need to type in return, 
                3. it also has implicit parameters, ie const functionName = (name) => "hello ${name}";, Note if there is only one parameter, you don't need to use the (), You can also use a default parameter. const functionName = (name = "john") => "hello ${name}";


        Destructuring 

            Arrays 

                We can take an array and destructure it, meaning we can take a value inside of an array, after it has already been set up, and create a variable, followed by the [] for an array, = to arrayName, inside of the array [] is assigning the indexes of the array to the values of the [] that we created, you can also ignore certain elements of the array, simply by leaving out one of them, ie [ , value2, value3] ex, const [value0, value1, value2] = arrayName to access it it would be like so console.log(value1, value2); Note you can also remove any of the previous values with just ","

            
            Objects (Dictionaries) 

                Note for objects we use {}, for destructuring objects, you can target the keys, and it will print or access the values of those keys, you can also access nested key value pairs inside of it using . notation, const {key1, key2, key3} = dictionaryName; console.log(key1); or you could use const {key1, key2} = dictionaryName.key2;


            Function

                you can also destructure a function, you have access to what it returns, if it is a list or an object.  you will use [] for this, const [return1, return2, return3] = functionName(); 


            Spread Operator

                you still have your object, you destructure the object, but then add in ...rest inside of the const {value1, ...rest} = objectName; the ...variableName will give you an array of all of the values that are left but are not accessed, when using console.log you will not need to use the ...variableName, simply variableName. the ... is what is important. the variable name can be anything. you can also just assign the ... to an object to have it returned as an array. 



    What is React D:!?!?!?!!?

        React is a JS Library, but also a framework, as in it dictates how things are set up, its one of the most used front end language libraries that are out there. The big thing is that is a single page application, meaning that everything happens on one page. Unlike python and java, which send a new page of information after we sent the information to the back end and then the DB, the front end has to redownload all of that information after all of its been processed. Facebook decided that it was clunky so they made a bigger faster way!!!! Its known as React!! It allows you to keep all of the stuff that your going to use, and swap out what your not, by changing the view of what the user sees, and not changing out the page, but swapping out components. It does mean that it downloads every component from the get go. But only has to query the DB once, when we do something on our page, such as add a comment to an article, it will simply update your view, as the only thing that really changed is what you added. It does this by updating state, by targeting the element and changing the value. It also creates a virtual DOM, so it'll compare the copy and what is happening, and updates the element. 




2/7/23 

    Office Hour 

        Went over high level git hub pull requests, how it works and why, need to use that for my notes from my other laptop. 

        What happens if you git init inside of another folder? creates a nested repo, creates a lot of issues, its a fairly common thing, a few steps need to be taken, 

        when doing a react app project, create the project first, and git init inside of it, because the react app will create its own git init, and we want the git to be higher up than the react app.  


    Lecture 

        Review of previous lectures overview. 

        Foundations of app.js and components

            Whenever we have a component, when we are returning something we can only return one parent element, JSX expressions can only have one parent element, if we don't want to have a div, we can use JSX fragments <> </> as the parent element. There can be no sibling elements, only one parent element with its nested child elements. 

            When creating your own component, you go into your source folder, create a folder called components it must be plural. As it is a keyword, anything we create lives inside of this folder. Creating components it must be capitalized, and you'll want it to be a .jsx file. Mainly because it will allow for the plugins and emmet tags to work. 

                Note if you installed the ES7+ plugin you can type in "rafce" and it will autofill in some useful code for you, the component name must be the same as the function name, you need to return the div or <>, it'll also create the arrow function for you, and export default the component name.  By exporting it you can use that component anywhere in your code.  

            The power of the export is that you can call the function inside of your app. It will be a self closing tag, <ComponentName/>, you will need to import the component from the location of the component. This is the real beginning of the leggos, this is where we build upon everything from this step right here. 

            You can nest your components inside of one another!!!!!!!!! I wonder if the onClick functions and commands will alow different renderings and values, depending on if statements and other things and values that are passed in. 


        Intro to Props

            Data can only go downstream, not upstream, you cannot push data from a second component to the first, it must come from the first component to the second component. While we could only access the third and second components through the first component if they are nested inside of the first component. However if we directly import the third component inside of the app.js we can access it directly. 

            props are properties, which allows the dev to pass in some form of data that the first component will have access too. Props are passed in as objects. Note in react there will be two objects present due to the strict mode. You can pass in values by creating key value pairs, as it is an object. Hard coded-FirstComponent firstName="Robert". If you console.log the prop, you would see the value of will. 

            You can destructure props, as well giving you access to the information. as well as using . notation to access the information. via prop.keyName this allows you to pass in the information. Beings that data flows downwards. you can add the props to the third component in the function, and then you will need to add the location that it is being called from, so ThirdComponent {FirstName = props.FirstName} Note-To access this information you will need to use {}. 

            You can add props in any of the parent components to their child components there is no necessary start point. 
